# Protein_function_prediction
## Goal of the Competition
The goal of this competition is to predict the function of a set of proteins. You will develop a model trained on the amino-acid sequences of the proteins and on other data. Your work will help ​​researchers better understand the function of proteins, which is important for discovering how cells, tissues, and organs work. This may also aid in the development of new drugs and therapies for various diseases.

## Context
Proteins are responsible for many activities in our tissues, organs, and bodies and they also play a central role in the structure and function of cells. Proteins are large molecules composed of 20 types of building-blocks known as amino acids. The human body makes tens of thousands of different proteins, and each protein is composed of dozens or hundreds of amino acids that are linked sequentially. This amino-acid sequence determines the 3D structure and conformational dynamics of the protein, and that, in turn, determines its biological function. Due to ongoing genome sequencing projects, we are inundated with large amounts of genomic sequence data from thousands of species, which informs us of the amino-acid sequence data of proteins for which these genes code. The accurate assignment of biological function to the protein is key to understanding life at the molecular level. However, assigning function to any specific protein can be made difficult due to the multiple functions many proteins have, along with their ability to interact with multiple partners. More knowledge of the functions assigned to proteins—potentially aided by data science—could lead to curing diseases and improving human and animal health and wellness in areas as varied as medicine and agriculture.
Research groups have developed many ways to determine the function of proteins, including numerous methods based on comparing unsolved sequences with databases of proteins whose functions are known. Other efforts aim to mine the scientific literature associated with some of these proteins, while even more methods combine sophisticated machine-learning algorithms with an understanding of biological processes to decipher what these proteins do. However, there are still many challenges in this field, which are driven by ambiguity, complexity, and data integration.

